It's time for a new puzzle of the month.
Imagine you choose 10 random chords on a
circle. The puzzle is, what's the
expected number of intersection points
inside that circle?
And what about if instead it was 100
[music] randomly chosen chords?
Hang on, hang on, hang on, I hear some
of you say, I remember something fishy
about choosing random chords on a
circle. That is right, there's a famous
paradox here called Bertrand's paradox.
I actually talked all about it on a pair
of Numberphile videos. So, let me be a
little bit more precise here. When I say
choose a random chord, I mean start by
choosing one point uniformly on the
circle. Loosely speaking, that means
every point is equally likely. If you're
a stickler and you want to be more
precise, it really means the probability
that a point lands in a given arc is
proportional to that arc's length. Then
choose a second point the same way and
connect the two of them. This is what I
mean when I say choose a random chord.
So again, imagining you choose 10 such
random chords, what's the expected
number of intersection points inside
that circle?
And what if it was 100 such chords?
For those of you following along, there
is a reason that this puzzle and the
ones from the last 2 months were put
together.